=pod

=head1 NAME

Verilog-Perl - Overview of Verilog language packages for Perl

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Verilog-Perl distribution provides Perl parsing and utilities for the
Verilog Language.  This file provides an overview of the distribution.

Verilog-Perl is currently a mature tool. Bugs are fixed and IEEE language
capabilities updated as needed, but the basic features and API are not
expected to change.

For general information see L<https://www.veripool.org/verilog-perl>.

For specific details on each component, see that component's manpage.

You may also want to try the AUTO features present in
L<https://www.veripool.org/verilog-mode> Verilog-Mode.

=head1 SCRIPTS

The following scripts are installed by Verilog-Perl:

=over 4

=item L<vhier>

Vhier reads the Verilog files passed on the command line and outputs a tree
of all of the filenames, modules, and cells referenced by that file.

=item L<vpassert>

Vpassert will read the specified Verilog files and preprocess special
PLI assertions.

=item L<vppreproc>

Vppreproc (Verilog-Perl Pre Processor) reads the Verilog files passed on the
command line and outputs preprocessed output.

=item L<vrename>

Vrename will allow a signal to be changed across all levels of the design
hierarchy, or to create a cross reference of signal names.

=back

=head1 PACKAGES

=over 4

=item L<Verilog::Getopt|Verilog::Getopt>

Verilog::Getopt provides standardized handling of options similar to
Verilog/VCS and cc/GCC.

=item L<Verilog::Language|Verilog::Language>

Verilog::Language provides general utilities for using the Verilog
Language, such as parsing numbers or determining what keywords exist.

=item L<Verilog::Netlist|Verilog::Netlist>

Verilog::Netlist reads and holds interconnect information about a whole
design database.

=item L<Verilog::Netlist::Cell|Verilog::Netlist::Cell>

A Verilog::Netlist::Cell object is created by Verilog::Netlist for every
instantiation in the current module.

=item L<Verilog::Netlist::ContAssign|Verilog::Netlist::ContAssign>

A Verilog::Netlist::ContAssign object is created by Verilog::Netlist for
every continuous assignment in the current module.

=item L<Verilog::Netlist::File|Verilog::Netlist::File>

Verilog::Netlist::File allows Verilog::Netlist objects to be read and
written in Verilog format.

=item L<Verilog::Netlist::Module|Verilog::Netlist::Module>

A Verilog::Netlist::Module object is created by Verilog::Netlist for every
module in the design.

=item L<Verilog::Netlist::Net|Verilog::Netlist::Net>

A Verilog::Netlist::Net object is created by Verilog::Netlist::Module for
every signal and input/output declaration in the current module.

=item L<Verilog::Netlist::Pin|Verilog::Netlist::Pin>

A Verilog::Netlist::Pin object is created by Verilog::Netlist::Cell for for
each pin connection on a cell.

=item L<Verilog::Netlist::Port|Verilog::Netlist::Port>

A Verilog::Netlist::Port object is created by Verilog::Netlist::Module for
every port connection in the module.

=item L<Verilog::Netlist::Subclass|Verilog::Netlist::Subclass>

The Verilog::Netlist::Subclass is used as a base class for all
Verilog::Netlist::* structures.

=item L<Verilog::Parser|Verilog::Parser>

Verilog::Parser will tokenize a Verilog file and invoke various callback
methods.

=item L<Verilog::Preproc|Verilog::Preproc>

Verilog::Preproc reads Verilog files, and preprocesses them according to
the Verilog specification.  Programs can be easily converted from reading a
IO::File into reading preprocessed output from Verilog::Preproc.

=item L<Verilog::SigParse|Verilog::SigParser>

Verilog::SigParser builds upon the Verilog::Parser package to provide
callbacks for when a signal is declared, a module instantiated, or a module
defined.

=back

=head1 WHICH PARSER PACKAGE?

If you are starting a new application which needs to parse the Verilog
language you have several tools available to you.  Which you pick depends
on how low level and complete the information you need is.

=over 4

=item VParseBison.y

The low level VParse* source files may be of use when you need a starting
point for your own a full C++ SystemVerilog grammar parser, using Bison and
Flex.  It understands most of the SystemVerilog 2017 grammar (1800-2017
Appendix A).

=item Verilog::Preproc

Verilog::Preproc is useful when you need only post-preprocessed text
output, or a list of defines, includes, etc.  It can preprocess a file, or
be used to provide the Verilog macro language on top of synthesis scripts.
It understands and implements all preprocessor features of SystemVerilog
2017.

=item Verilog::Parser

Verilog::Parser is useful when you need to tokenize or write source filters
(where you need everything including whitespace).  It can take raw files,
or preprocessed input, and generates callbacks.  It understands all
SystemVerilog 2017 keywords.

=item Abstract Syntax Tree

Verilog::Parser knows enough to make a complete Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)
of Verilog syntax. This represents all major constructs such as a "module"
as a data structure, but does not interconnect the AST nodes as would be
needed to follow signals.  Not all keywords have been implemented; many are
parsed but otherwise ignored.  A complete Ast tree would allow any
arbitrary transformation of Verilog syntax (everything is known excluding
whitespace). For these applications consider Verilator's XML output
(below).

=item Verilog::SigParser

Verilog::SigParser is useful when you need a list of modules, signals,
ports, functions, etc.  It requires a preprocessed file (from
Verilog::Preproc), and can parse all SystemVerilog 2017 files, but only
provides callbacks on certain interesting things.  The SigParser operates
only on a file at a time; it does not interconnect signals nor perform any
elaboration (resolution of parameters).

=item Verilog::Netlist

Verilog::Netlist is useful for when you need the hierarchy, and a list of
signals per module, pins per cell, etc.  It builds upon the output of
Verilog::SigParser, so requires preprocessed files (from Verilog::Preproc).
It parses all SystemVerilog 2017 files, but not all SystemVerilog
constructs are loaded into objects. Verilog::Netlist interconnects modules
with instantiations but does not perform any elaboration (resolution of
parameters).

=item VPI

Using the VPI is the best way to access the behavior of the design.  It is
not part of this package as it requires a compliant simulator and C++ code
to call the VPI, and understands as much of the language as the simulator
supports.  This allows writing lint checks and full knowledge of all parts
of the code.  The VPI can operate ONLY on an elaborated design (where all
parameters are resolved).  Walking a VPI tree general requires a good deal
of work compared to simple scripting (though little work compared to
writing a parser from scratch).

=item Verilator

The Verilator program also contains a very similar front end as
Verilog-Perl and can create XML output showing the abstract syntax tree.
Verilator also understands how to elaborate and connect complex pins and
types, but supports mostly only the synthesis subset of SystemVerilog.

If you're looking to parse only synthesizable code this is the recommended
route.

=item Verilog-Mode for Emacs

Although not a parser, a common requested use of Verilog-Perl is to
automatically make shell modules and interconnect modules.  Verilog-Mode is
a better solution to this problem, as it results in completely portable
code; the program (Verilog-Mode) isn't needed for others to update the
design.  It's also in very common usage, including by many IP providers.

=back

=head1 INSTALLATION

Skip this section if Verilog-Perl has already been installed.

Verilog-Perl should run on any system with Perl, G++, Flex, and Bison.  It
is known to work on most Linux distributions, plus Cygwin.

You may install using either CPAN, or the sources.  If you plan to do any
development on Verilog-Perl, use the sources.

=head2 CPAN Installation

Option 1: Easiest installation is using the "CPAN" command line that comes
with Perl.  After configuring CPAN the first time, simply

   cpan install Verilog::Language
   # And see the documentation
   man Verilog-Perl
   # Or, sometimes the capitalization is changed
   man verilog-perl

Read the rest of this file for details on the programs provided.

=head2 Manual Installation from Repository

Option 2: Build any version using the source development repository with:

   git clone http://git.veripool.org/git/Verilog-Perl  # Only first time
   cd Verilog-Perl
   git pull        # Make sure we're up-to-date
   git tag         # See what versions exist (recent GITs only)
   #git checkout master      # Use development branch (e.g. recent bug fix)
   #git checkout stable      # Use most recent release
   #git checkout v{version}  # Switch to specified release version

   perl Makefile.PL
   # Ignore warning about README, this file will be generated
   make
   make test
   make install

Read the rest of this file for details on the programs provided.

=head1 FAQ

=over 4

=item Why do I get "unexpected `do'" or "unexpected `bit'" errors?

Do, bit, ref, return, and other words are now SystemVerilog keywords.  You
should change your code to not use them to insure it works with newer
tools.  Alternatively, surround them by the Verilog 2005/SystemVerilog
begin_keywords pragma to indicate Verilog 2001 code.

   `begin_keywords "1364-2001"
      integer bit; initial bit = 1;
   `end_keywords

Alternatively use the --language (for vhier) or
Verilog::Language::language_standard call to specify "1364-2001", or for
really old code, "1364-1995".

But, again, you really should fix the Verilog code.

=item With Verilog::Netlist how do I resolve signal widths that include
parameters down to constants?

Unfortunately parameter resolution is part of elaboration.  Verilog-Perl
doesn't do elaboration as it requires a good fraction of a complete
simulator implementation.  Many applications can work around this
limitation, if yours still requires elaboration you're stuck with using
Verilator or the VPI, see the sections above.

=back

=head1 DISTRIBUTION

Verilog-Perl is part of the L<https://www.veripool.org/> free Verilog EDA
software tool suite.  The latest version is available from CPAN and from
L<https://www.veripool.org/verilog-perl>.

Copyright 2000-2022 by Wilson Snyder.  This package is free software; you
can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of either the GNU
Lesser General Public License Version 3 or the Perl Artistic License Version 2.0.

This code is provided with no warranty of any kind, and is used entirely at
your own risk.

=head1 AUTHORS

Wilson Snyder <wsnyder@wsnyder.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vhier>,
L<vpassert>,
L<vppreproc>,
L<vrename>

L<Verilog::EditFiles>,
L<Verilog::Getopt>,
L<Verilog::Language>
L<Verilog::Netlist>,
L<Verilog::Parser>,
L<Verilog::Preproc>,
L<Verilog::SigParser>

L<Verilog::Netlist::Cell>,
L<Verilog::Netlist::ContAssign>,
L<Verilog::Netlist::File>,
L<Verilog::Netlist::Interface>,
L<Verilog::Netlist::ModPort>,
L<Verilog::Netlist::Module>,
L<Verilog::Netlist::Net>,
L<Verilog::Netlist::Pin>,
L<Verilog::Netlist::Port>,
L<Verilog::Netlist::Subclass>,

And the L<https://www.veripool.org/verilog-mode>Verilog-Mode package for Emacs.

=cut
